add tutorial nft marketplace in assemblyscript (#7)
figment-networks/datahub-learn: network-documentation/near/tutorials/nft-marketplace-in-assemblyscript.md

	const tokenId = storage.getPrimitive<u64>(TOTAL_SUPPLY, 1)

	// enforce token limits – not part of the spec but important!
	assert(tokenId <= MAX_SUPPLY, ERROR_MAXIMUM_TOKEN_LIMIT_REACHED)

	// assign ownership
	tokenToOwner.set(tokenId, owner_id)

	// increment and store the next tokenId
	storage.set<u64>(TOTAL_SUPPLY, tokenId + 1)

	// return the tokenId – while typical change methods cannot return data, this
	// is handy for unit tests
	return tokenId
}
```

## Marketplace

We are done with the basic NFTs contract, users can mint their NFTs. We're going for the next step, creating the marketplace where NFT Owner can put up the price and other users that are interested in it can buy it with NEAR coin. We'll be adding unit tests after each function/feature that we're building to make sure it is work as expected before we deploy it on the blockchain.

### Unit test

Unit tests can be found on **tests** folder. `As-pect` was used for unit tests in AssemblyScript. You can use `VMContext` to mock some stuff on NEAR runtime for testing purpose like contract caller, attached deposit, etc.

You can try to test it using:

```
yarn test:unit:as
```

> We will be adding more features one by one to the basic NFT contract from NEP-4 and create unit test for every function that we create.

Author: Will write 1-2 sentences about NEP-4, should be enough

### Data Types & Storage

We need to create a new `PersistentUnorderedMap` that store the price for all the token listed by their owner. We use `u128` as the data types for `Price` because NEAR coin is also in `u128`. You can write it on top of the contract. We use `PersistentUnorderedMap` because we wanted to create a `key-value` storage that can also be retrived as a list.

```typescript
type Price = u128

const market = new PersistentUnorderedMap<TokenId, Price>('m')
```

> 

Reviewer: also need to update the import, so add something like this: 

```
First, let's import `PersistentUnorderedMap` from the `near-sdk-as`. Update the following line at the top of `main.ts`:

```typescript
import { PersistentMap, PersistentUnorderedMap, storage, context } from 'near-sdk-as'
```

> 

Reviewer: I'm getting errors with u128. I'm not sure where to import it from, so also add instructions for that

> 

Author: Just update some parts in the tutorial like u128 and PersistentUnorderedMap on the [latest commit](https://github.com/figment-networks/datahub-learn/pull/7/commits/d8179bc3bd3fad401f16ab30e42ac2138878cb4f)

	})

	it('should throw error if called by non owner', () => {
		expect(() => {
			VMContext.setPredecessor_account_id(alice)
			// mint new token that return its id
			const tokenId = nonSpec.mint_to(alice)
			// 1 NEAR
			const price = u128.from('1000000000000000000000000')

			VMContext.setPredecessor_account_id(bob)
			nonSpec.add_to_market(tokenId, price)
		}).toThrow(nonSpec.ERROR_TOKEN_NOT_OWNED_BY_CALLER)
	})
})
```

After creating the market we need to have function fetch the price. We create simple get function `get_market_price` that takes `token_id` and return its price.

```typescript
export function get_market_price(token_id: TokenId): Price {
	return market.getSome(token_id)
}
```

Again, we need to test whether our function works as expected.

```typescript
describe('get_market_price', () => {
	it('return market price for a token', () => {
		VMContext.setPredecessor_account_id(alice)
		// mint new token that return its id
		const tokenId = nonSpec.mint_to(alice)
		// set price to be 1 NEAR
		const price = u128.from('1000000000000000000000000')
		nonSpec.add_to_market(tokenId, price)
		// get the first 5 NFTs listed on the market

> 		expect(nonSpec.get_market(0, 5)).toHaveLength(1)

Author: my bad! pasted the wrong test case

	})
})
```

### Remove Token from Market

Removing token from market is pretty much like the previous one. We have private `internal_remove_from_market` that delete the token listing from market and public `remove_from_market` that validate the token ownership and whether the token is in the market or not.

```typescript
export function remove_from_market(token_id: TokenId): boolean {
	const caller = context.predecessor

	// validate token owner
	const owner = tokenToOwner.getSome(token_id)

> 	assert(owner == caller, ERROR_TOKEN_NOT_OWNED_BY_CALLER)

Reviewer: this is different from the final code in [tutorials](https://github.com/figment-networks/tutorials/pull/7/files)

```
	const owner = tokenToOwner.getSome(token_id)
	const escrow = escrowAccess.get(owner)
	assert(
		[owner, escrow].includes(caller),
		ERROR_CALLER_ID_DOES_NOT_MATCH_EXPECTATION
	)
```

can you change either this or the final code so that they're consistent?

Author: changed the code in this tutorial

```typescript
describe('get_market_list', () => {
	it('return market price for a token', () => {
		VMContext.setPredecessor_account_id(alice)

		const price = u128.from('1000000000000000000000000')
		// mint new token that return its id
		const tokenId_1 = nonSpec.mint_to(alice)
		nonSpec.add_to_market(tokenId_1, price)

		const tokenId_2 = nonSpec.mint_to(alice)
		nonSpec.add_to_market(tokenId_2, price)

		const tokenId_3 = nonSpec.mint_to(alice)
		nonSpec.add_to_market(tokenId_3, price)
		// set price to be 1 NEAR
		// get the first 5 NFTs listed on the market
		expect(nonSpec.get_market(0, 5)).toHaveLength(3)
	})
})
```

### Build the contract

Before we build the contract, let's test the newly added code and see if everything goes well.

```
yarn test:unit:as
```

If it returns something like this then we're good to go. If not, make sure you didn't have any typos and use the latest `near-sdk-as`.

```bash
[Result]: ✔ PASS
[Files]: 1 total
[Groups]: 13 count, 13 pass
[]Tests]: 20 pass, 0 fail, 20 total
```

To build our contract into WebAssembly, we simply use the command below:

```
yarn build:as
```

> If you have made any errors, the compiler should give you a detailed explanation. Since you've copied and pasted everything from this tutorial, it's probably just typos. 

Author: just pushed the commit on the master branch

## Interact with Testnet Blockchain

We can use NEAR CLI to interact with the blockchain, there are 2 main commands to `call` and `view`. Call is used to mutate blockchain state and view is only to get data from blockchain. 

First, we need to authenticate few accounts into the NEAR CLI. Go to `https://wallet.testnet.near.org/` and create 2 accounts, you can name it anything you want but in this tutorial we'll refer them as `artist` and `collector`. After that, go back to our terminal and use this command:

```bash
near login
```

It will open your default browser and choose one of the account that you've just created to authenticate it on our terminal. Do it twice so that your 2 new accounts are authenticated on the NEAR CLI. If your browser doesn't automatically open, you can just follow the instruction when using `near login`.

To check whether those accounts already authenticated on our computer, we can use this command:

```bash
ls ~/.near-credentials/default/
```

> If you saw at least 2 files with `[account_id].json` similar to the one that you've created on the browser, then we're good to go. Without further ado, let's try try some function that we already created with these new accounts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you see at least 2 files with `[account_id].json` similar to the one that you created in the browser, then we're good to go. Without further ado, let's try some functions that we created previously with these new accounts.
```

### Mint NFT!

We need to use call method to mint new NFT because it will mutate the blockchain state. We will use the function `mint_to` to create mint new NFT and assign its ownership to somebody. You can use the command below:

```bash

> near call --accountId [ARTIST_ID] dev-1610108148519-8579413 mint_to '{"owner_id": "[ARTIST_ID]"}'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
near call --accountId [ARTIST_ID] [DEV_ID] mint_to '{"owner_id": "[ARTIST_ID]"}'
```

Use `[DEV_ID]` for consistency and make it obvious that this needs to be changed too

```

> Make sure to change `[ARTIST-ID]` to one of the accounts that you've created before. That command will return the tokenId of the newly minted NFT:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure to change `[ARTIST-ID]` to one of the accounts that you created earlier in the browser, and `[DEV-ID]` with the account id we created when deploying our smart contract. Running the above command will return the tokenId of the newly minted NFT:
```

```
'1'
```

### Add to Marketplace

> We can add our newly minted NFT to the marketplace to see if there are collectors that are interested to add it into their collections. We can use the function `add_to_market` to do that which takes `token_id` and `price` as parameters. The price must be in yoctoNEAR (10^24), in this case we sell our NFT for 1 N -> 1000000000000000000000000 yoctoNEAR. Make sure to change the parameters `[TOKEN_ID]` into any NFT ID that you own/mint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can add our newly minted NFT to the marketplace to see if there are collectors that are interested in adding it into their collections. We can use the function `add_to_market` to do this which takes `token_id` and `price` as parameters. The price must be in yoctoNEAR (10^24), in this case we sell our NFT for 1 N -> 1000000000000000000000000 yoctoNEAR. Make sure to change the parameters `[TOKEN_ID]` into any NFT ID that you own/mint.
```

```bash
near call --accountId [ARTIST_ID] dev-1610108148519-8579413 add_to_market '{"token_id": "[TOKEN_ID]", "price": "1000000000000000000000000"}'
```

We can validate if our NFT is listed on the marketplace as expected using the view function `get_market_price` that takes `token_id` as the parameter.

```bash
near view --accountId [ARTIST-ID] dev-1610108148519-8579413 get_market_price '{"token_id": "[TOKEN_ID]"}'
```

> It should returns the price that we've just set previously using `add_to_market` which is 1 N.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It should return the price that we've just set previously using `add_to_market` which is 1 N.
```

Reviewer: It didn't return a price. I got `true`:

```
Scheduling a call: dev-1610977564975-4620260.add_to_market({"token_id": "1", "price": "1000000000000000000000000"})
Transaction Id 72tJckrgu49U93Ra1RvzZArwugW86nzZroCbbb6MshpC
To see the transaction in the transaction explorer, please open this url in your browser
https://explorer.testnet.near.org/transactions/72tJckrgu49U93Ra1RvzZArwugW86nzZroCbbb6MshpC
true
```

Author: This one refers to the view function `get_market_price`. Here's the latest commit to make sure those call & view methods are having their own return detail https://github.com/figment-networks/datahub-learn/pull/7/commits/5d4e52d0cddb4ed8571321c0edfab61a71d83473

### Buy the NFT

> This time, we'll be using another account beside the artist and let's call it the collector `COLLECTOR_ID`. Collector can buy the listed NFT by calling the function `buy` that require `[TOKEN_ID]` as its parameter. This time we add `--amount` to buy the NFT, it is usually called attachedDeposit and we attach 1 N as it is the listed price needed to buy the NFT.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This time, we'll be using the other account you created, let's call this account the collector `COLLECTOR_ID`. The collector can buy the listed NFT by calling the function `buy` which requires `[TOKEN_ID]` as its parameter. This time we add `--amount` to buy the NFT it is usually called attachedDeposit and we attach 1 N as it is the listed price needed to buy the NFT.
```

Reviewer: This is unclear to me "it is usually called attachedDeposit".  It sounds like instead of `--amount` it's usually `--attachedDeposit`? Can you make this sentence clearer?

Author: I think omitting the `attachedDeposit` should be fine

> Before we buy the NFT, let's just take a note at the current balance of the artist and collector using NEAR CLI command below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before we buy the NFT, let's just take note of the current balance of the artist and collector using the NEAR CLI command below:
```

```bash
near state [ACCOUNT_ID]
```

> You can replace the `[ACCOUNT_ID]` with `[ARTIST_ID]` or `[COLLECTOR_ID]` and it will returns something like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can replace the `[ACCOUNT_ID]` with `[ARTIST_ID]` or `[COLLECTOR_ID]` and it will return something like this:
```

```
{
  amount: '88126613751512027823390000',
  locked: '0',
  code_hash: '11111111111111111111111111111111',
  storage_usage: 2844,
  storage_paid_at: 0,
  block_height: 32018936,
  block_hash: 'Ffc1kw56xpCV1fPJVHNEtfbDbfPF4wkhQNbvbUbXpH5M',
  formattedAmount: '88.12661375151202782339'
}
```

> The `formattedAmount` is current balance of the account, so just keep that in mind and we'll compare with after buying process. We call the `buy` function with `[COLLECTOR_ID]`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `formattedAmount` is the current balance of the account, so just take note of this value so that you can compare it to the `formattedAmount` after the purchase is complete. We call the `buy` function with `[COLLECTOR_ID]`:
```

```bash

> near call --accountId [COLLECTOR_ID] dev-1610108148519-8579413 buy '{"token_id": "[TOKEN_ID]"}' --amount 1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
near call --accountId [COLLECTOR_ID] [DEV_ID] buy '{"token_id": "[TOKEN_ID]"}' --amount 1
```

```

If everything goes well, we can validate the ownership and balance change.

```bash

> near view --accountId [COLLECTOR_ID] dev-1610108148519-8579413 get_token_owner '{"token_id": "[TOKEN_ID]"}'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
near view --accountId [COLLECTOR_ID] [DEV_ID] get_token_owner '{"token_id": "[TOKEN_ID]"}'
```

```

> We can call `near state [ACCOUNT_ID]` to check if the payment is already received by the seller/artist and deducted from buyer balance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can call `near state [ACCOUNT_ID]` to check if the payment is already received by the seller/artist and deducted from the buyer balance.
```

## Conclusion

> Alright, so we have deployed the modified NFT smart contract with Marketplace functionality on the testnet. You can do more experiment by calling other function like `delete_from_market` and so on. You can also connect this contract with javascript sdk `near-api-js` and create the frontend side for your marketplace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alright, so we have deployed the modified NFT smart contract with Marketplace functionality on the testnet. You can experiment more by calling other functions such as `delete_from_market` and so on. You can also connect this contract with the javascript sdk `near-api-js` and create the frontend side for your marketplace.
```

> Please remember that this code is not intended for production, there are still few other things to consider if you wanted to deploy it on mainnet like disable the transfer method if the token is listed on market and so on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please remember that this code is not intended for production: there are still a few other things to consider if you wanted to deploy this to mainnet such as disabling the transfer method if the token is listed on the market and so on.
```

	market.set(token_id, price)
}
```

Like I mentioned earlier, we'll be adding a test after adding a new feature for the smart contract. First let's update the import statement at the top of the file.

```typescript
import { u128, VMContext } from 'near-sdk-as'
```

You can add the following code at the end of the current unit test. The comment itself is already self-explanatory.

```typescript
describe('add_to_market', () => {
	it('should add nft to market and return true', () => {
		VMContext.setPredecessor_account_id(alice)
		// mint new token that return its id
		const tokenId = nonSpec.mint_to(alice)
		// 1 NEAR
		const price = u128.from('1000000000000000000000000')

		expect(nonSpec.add_to_market(tokenId, price)).toBe(true)
	})

	it('should throw error if called by non owner', () => {
		expect(() => {
			VMContext.setPredecessor_account_id(alice)
			// mint new token that return its id
			const tokenId = nonSpec.mint_to(alice)
			// 1 NEAR
			const price = u128.from('1000000000000000000000000')

			VMContext.setPredecessor_account_id(bob)
			nonSpec.add_to_market(tokenId, price)
		}).toThrow(nonSpec.ERROR_TOKEN_NOT_OWNED_BY_CALLER)
	})
})
```

> 

Author: Please check my latest commit, I put the test at the end of each section

```
yarn build:as
```

If you see any errors, the compiler should give you a detailed explanation. Since you've copied and pasted everything from this tutorial, it's probably just typos.

You can also see the complete code for this tutorial on the following branch: [feat/marketplace](https://github.com/hdriqi/NFT/tree/feat/marketplace).

## Deploying and using the contract

We can use the NEAR CLI to deploy this contract and to test that it's working. Run this command to deploy the contract you just built:

```
near dev-deploy out/main.wasm
```

The output will show details of the deployment transaction, and the ID of the test NEAR account that the CLI auto-generated for you. It should look something like this:

```
Starting deployment. Account id: dev-1610108148519-8579413, node: https://rpc.testnet.near.org, helper: https://helper.testnet.near.org, file: out/main.wasm
Transaction Id HiGAnagXLY7TaCzmLRBCSzgDPWjSFifaLTQsfARmj1Qy
To see the transaction in the transaction explorer, please open this url in your browser
https://explorer.testnet.near.org/transactions/HiGAnagXLY7TaCzmLRBCSzgDPWjSFifaLTQsfARmj1Qy
Done deploying to dev-1610108148519-8579413
```

> Unlike Ethereum, you need to deploy a contract into a certain account. Using `dev-deploy` will create a test account and deploy the contract into that account at once. The test account looks something like `dev-xxxxxxxxxxx-xxxxx`.

Author: changed it a little bit here https://github.com/figment-networks/datahub-learn/pull/7/commits/2b3913415e68293b281327dba6751f5da1aaf014#diff-af6c31285caafa258adac96da1df8183131b9c890840308176a0cc60b0a0501cR680

### Mint an NFT!

We need to use the `call` method to mint a new NFT because it will mutate the blockchain state. We will use the function `mint_to` to mint a new NFT and assign its ownership to somebody. You can use the command below:

```bash
near call --accountId [ARTIST_ID] [DEV_ID] mint_to '{"owner_id": "[ARTIST_ID]"}'
```

Make sure to change `[ARTIST-ID]` to one of the accounts that you created earlier in the browser, and `[DEV-ID]` with the account id we created when deploying our smart contract. Running the above command will return the tokenId of the newly minted NFT:

```
'1'
```

### Add to Marketplace

We can add our newly minted NFT to the marketplace to see if there are collectors that are interested in adding it into their collections. We can use the function `add_to_market` to do this which takes `token_id` and `price` as parameters. The price must be in yoctoNEAR (10^24), in this case we sell our NFT for 1 N -> 1000000000000000000000000 yoctoNEAR. Make sure to change the parameters `[TOKEN_ID]` into any NFT ID that you own/mint.

```bash

> near call --accountId [ARTIST_ID] dev-1610108148519-8579413 add_to_market '{"token_id": "[TOKEN_ID]", "price": "1000000000000000000000000"}'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
near call --accountId [ARTIST_ID] [DEV_ID] add_to_market '{"token_id": "[TOKEN_ID]", "price": "1000000000000000000000000"}'
```

```

This call function should return true if everything goes well.

We can validate if our NFT is listed on the marketplace as expected using the view function `get_market_price` that takes `token_id` as the parameter.

```bash

> near view --accountId [ARTIST-ID] dev-1610108148519-8579413 get_market_price '{"token_id": "[TOKEN_ID]"}'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
near view --accountId [ARTIST-ID] [DEV_ID] get_market_price '{"token_id": "[TOKEN_ID]"}'
```

```

It should return the price that we've just set previously using `add_to_market` which is 1 N.

### Buy an NFT

This time, we'll be using the other account you created, let's call this account the collector `COLLECTOR_ID`. The collector can buy the listed NFT by calling the function `buy` which requires `[TOKEN_ID]` as its parameter. This time we add `--amount` to buy the NFT and we attach 1 N as it is the listed price needed to buy the NFT.

Before we buy the NFT, let's just take note of the current balance of the artist and collector using the NEAR CLI command below:

```bash
near state [ACCOUNT_ID]
```

You can replace the `[ACCOUNT_ID]` with `[ARTIST_ID]` or `[COLLECTOR_ID]` and it will return something like this:

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```json
```

{
  amount: '88126613751512027823390000',
  locked: '0',
  code_hash: '11111111111111111111111111111111',
  storage_usage: 2844,
  storage_paid_at: 0,
  block_height: 32018936,
  block_hash: 'Ffc1kw56xpCV1fPJVHNEtfbDbfPF4wkhQNbvbUbXpH5M',
  formattedAmount: '88.12661375151202782339'
}
```

The `formattedAmount` is the current balance of the account, so just take note of this value so that you can compare it to the `formattedAmount` after the purchase is complete. We call the `buy` function with `[COLLECTOR_ID]`:

```bash
near call --accountId [COLLECTOR_ID] [DEV_ID] buy '{"token_id": "[TOKEN_ID]"}' --amount 1
```

If everything goes well, we can validate the ownership and balance change.

```bash
near view --accountId [COLLECTOR_ID] [DEV_ID] get_token_owner '{"token_id": "[TOKEN_ID]"}'
```

We can call `near state [ACCOUNT_ID]` to check if the payment is already received by the seller/artist and deducted from the buyer balance.

> ## Conclusion

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Conclusion
```

Congratulations! We have deployed the modified NFT smart contract in AssemblyScript with the Marketplace functionality on the NEAR Testnet. You can now keep experimenting by calling other functions like `delete_from_market` and others. You can also connect this contract with the javascript sdk `near-api-js` and create the frontend application for your marketplace.

Please remember that this code is not intended for production: there are still a few other things to consider if you wanted to deploy this to mainnet such as disabling the transfer method if the token is listed on the market and so on.

> The complete code can be found on [Github](https://github.com/figment-networks/tutorials).

Reviewer 2: We should fix this link

This tutorial requires:

- Install Node.js and NPM [(see Tutorial 1)](https://learn.figment.io/network-documentation/near/tutorials/1.-connecting-to-a-near-node-using-datahub)
- Install the NEAR CLI [(see Tutorial 2)](https://learn.figment.io/network-documentation/near/tutorials/2.-creating-your-first-near-account-using-the-sdk)
- Complete the first NEAR smart contract tutorial [(see Tutorial 5)](https://learn.figment.io/network-documentation/near/tutorials/5.-writing-and-deploying-your-first-near-smart-contract)
- Complete the intro to NFTs on NEAR [(see Tutorial)](https://learn.figment.io/network-documentation/near/tutorials/write-nft-contracts-in-rust)

## Installing Yarn

If you haven't already, we need to install the `yarn` package manager. The example code we're working with uses `yarn` as its build tool. Run this command to install `yarn`:

```bash
npm i -g yarn
```

If that worked, you're ready to develop smart contracts in AssemblyScript and Rust.

### Cloning the NEAR NFT repo

In this tutorial we'll use the forked NEAR's NFT example code on Github. On Unix, run these commands in the `bash` shell to clone that repo and install its requirements:

```bash

> git clone https://github.com/hdriqi/NFT

Reviewer: ```suggestion
git clone https://github.com/figment-networks/NFT
```

	assert(owner == predecessor, ERROR_TOKEN_NOT_OWNED_BY_CALLER)

	// assign new owner to token
	tokenToOwner.set(token_id, new_owner_id)
}
```

### View Methods

View methods have GET functionalities. It does not cost any gas fee to call but they cannot mutate the blockchain state.

```typescript
/****************/
/* VIEW METHODS */
/****************/

// Returns `true` or `false` based on caller of the function (`predecessor`) having access to account_id's tokens
export function check_access(account_id: string): boolean {
	const caller = context.predecessor

	// throw error if someone tries to check if they have escrow access to their own account;
	// not part of the spec, but an edge case that deserves thoughtful handling
	assert(caller != account_id, ERROR_CALLER_ID_DOES_NOT_MATCH_EXPECTATION)

	// if we haven't set an escrow yet, then caller does not have access to account_id
	if (!escrowAccess.contains(account_id)) {
		return false
	}

	const escrow = escrowAccess.getSome(account_id)
	return escrow == caller
}

// Get an individual owner by given `tokenId`
export function get_token_owner(token_id: TokenId): string {
	return tokenToOwner.getSome(token_id)
}
```

### Minting

> Now here's the main function that allows users to mint the NFT. The NFT itself is just a simple ID with owner. The metadata such as an image, video or audio is usually stored off-chain on [IPFS], [Sia] or even a centralized file storage such as [AWS S3]. Unlike Ethereum, storing data on NEAR is pretty cheap; you can actually store the whole metadata on chain but it will not be covered in this tutorial, you can try it yourself!

Author: https://github.com/figment-networks/datahub-learn/pull/7/commits/2b3913415e68293b281327dba6751f5da1aaf014#diff-af6c31285caafa258adac96da1df8183131b9c890840308176a0cc60b0a0501cR186

```typescript
describe('remove_from_market', () => {
	it('should remove nft from market and return true', () => {
		VMContext.setPredecessor_account_id(alice)
		// mint new token that return its id
		const tokenId = nonSpec.mint_to(alice)
		// 1 NEAR
		const price = u128.from('1000000000000000000000000')
		// add token to market
		expect(nonSpec.add_to_market(tokenId, price)).toBe(true)
		// remove token from market
		expect(nonSpec.remove_from_market(tokenId)).toBe(true)
	})

	it('should throw error for nft available in market', () => {
		expect(() => {
			VMContext.setPredecessor_account_id(alice)
			// mint new token that return its id
			const tokenId = nonSpec.mint_to(alice)
			// throw error when try to remove token id that was not listed
			nonSpec.remove_from_market(tokenId)
		}).toThrow(nonSpec.ERROR_TOKEN_NOT_IN_MARKET)
	})
})
```

Now let's run the tests using:

```bash
yarn test:unit:as
```

It should return something like this:

```bash
...
[Describe]: remove_from_market

 [Success]: ✔ should remove nft from market and return true
 [Success]: ✔ should throw error for nft available in market
...
```

### Buy Functionality

> This is the main function for the marketplace where users can buy the listed NFTs on the marketplace. Buyers can attach some NEAR as payment and the contract will automatically send the payment to the seller and update the token ownership to the buyer. We'll also create a simple transaction fee or commission for the smart contract developer, in this example we'll take a 5% cut for every sales made via the smart contract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the main function for the marketplace where users can buy the listed NFTs on the marketplace. Buyers can attach some NEAR as payment and the contract will automatically send the payment to the seller and update the token ownership to the buyer. We'll also create a simple transaction fee or commission for the smart contract developer, in this example we'll take a 5% cut for every sale made via the smart contract.
```

First, let's setup a constant for our commission. You can write this constant at the top of `main.ts` in the `DATA TYPES AND STORAGE` section.

```typescript
const COMMISSION = 5
```

Let's start coding the buy function. To retrieve the amount of payment in the smart contract, we can use `context.attachedDeposit`. After that we need to validate the deposit amount and the current NFT price. Add the following to `NON-SPEC METHODS` in `main.ts`:

```typescript

> export function buy(token_id: TokenId): TokenId {

Reviewer: so currently you copy and paste the same function `buy` 3x. I think we can improve this flow. It would be a lot nicer to have code comments and to guide the user to add small sections into the function rather than the entire function each time.

Look at how it's done [here](https://learn.figment.io/network-documentation/secret/tutorials/3.-querying-the-secret-blockchain#query-blockchain-details). They use code comments, then tell the user to add a snippet under the comment.

Author: Please check my latest commit https://github.com/figment-networks/datahub-learn/pull/7/commits/2b3913415e68293b281327dba6751f5da1aaf014#diff-af6c31285caafa258adac96da1df8183131b9c890840308176a0cc60b0a0501cR469

Reviewer: looks great!

```typescript
describe('buy', () => {
	it('transfer token and remove it from market', () => {
		VMContext.setPredecessor_account_id(alice)
		// mint new token that return its id
		const tokenId = nonSpec.mint_to(alice)
		// set price to be 1 NEAR
		const price = u128.from('1000000000000000000000000')
		nonSpec.add_to_market(tokenId, price)
		// mock the Buyer id & the deposit amount
		VMContext.setPredecessor_account_id(bob)
		VMContext.setAttached_deposit(price)
		// Buyer (bob) will call this buy function
		nonSpec.buy(tokenId)
		// after successful purchase the owner of the NFT must be bob
		expect(get_token_owner(tokenId)).toBe(bob)
	})
})
```

Now let's run the tests using:

```bash
yarn test:unit:as
```

It should return something like this:

```bash
...
[Describe]: buy

 [Success]: ✔ transfer token and remove it from market
...
```

### Fetch Marketplace Tokens

First we need to create the struct `TokenDetail` and add the decorator `nearBindgen` to serialize/deserialize the struct in the NEAR runtime (think of it as the required syntax for every struct to run on the NEAR protocol).

> We will create function `get_market` that will return a list of `TokenDetail` that contains the `tokenId` and its `price`. For the implementation, we use `.entries` from `PersistentUnorderedMap` that takes the start and end indexes from our list (we can use this for pagination later when building the frontend application).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will create the  function `get_market` that will return a list of `TokenDetail` that contains the `tokenId` and its `price`. For the implementation, we use `.entries` from `PersistentUnorderedMap` that takes the start and end indexes from our list (we can use this for pagination later when building the frontend application).
```

```bash
near call --accountId [COLLECTOR_ID] [DEV_ID] buy '{"token_id": "[TOKEN_ID]"}' --amount 1
```

If everything goes well, we can validate the ownership and balance change.

```bash
near view --accountId [COLLECTOR_ID] [DEV_ID] get_token_owner '{"token_id": "[TOKEN_ID]"}'
```

We can call `near state [ACCOUNT_ID]` to check if the payment is already received by the seller/artist and deducted from the buyer balance.

## Conclusion

Congratulations! We have deployed the modified NFT smart contract in AssemblyScript with the Marketplace functionality on the NEAR Testnet. You can now keep experimenting by calling other functions like `delete_from_market` and others. You can also connect this contract with the javascript sdk `near-api-js` and create the frontend application for your marketplace.

Please remember that this code is not intended for production: there are still a few other things to consider if you wanted to deploy this to mainnet such as disabling the transfer method if the token is listed on the market and so on.

> The complete code can be found on [Github](https://github.com/figment-networks/tutorials).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The complete code can be found on [Github](https://github.com/figment-networks/tutorials/near/7_NFT_marketplace/).
```

}
```

> Again, we need to create unit test our function to make sure it works as expected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Again, we need to create a unit test for our function to make sure it works as expected.
```

As you can see, we call the private `internal_remove_from_market` function to remove the token from the marketplace without any validation.

> We can now test our `buy` function using the unit test below by updating at the end of our `main.unit.spec.ts`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can now test our `buy` function using the unit test below by updating the end of our `main.unit.spec.ts`:
```

To build our contract into WebAssembly, we simply use the command below:

```bash
yarn build:as
```

If you see any errors, the compiler should give you a detailed explanation. Since you've copied and pasted everything from this tutorial, it's probably just typos.

> You can also see the complete code for this tutorial on the following repo: [feat/marketplace](https://github.com/figment-networks/tutorials).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also see the complete code for this tutorial in the following repo: [feat/marketplace](https://github.com/figment-networks/tutorials).
```
